caribou are North America's long
distance walkers spending their entire
lives on the move this far north the
winter days are short and the caribou
used the daylight hours to search for
food
this winter herd consists mainly of
females and calves they're part of the
bigger George River herd Canada's
largest which numbers an impressive half
a million
when not moving caribou spend much of
the day with their heads buried in the
snow the male's have lost their antlers
but the females keep theirs throughout
the winter as mothers they need to be
able to protect their excavations for
beneath the snow they find a lichen
known as reindeer moss which is rich in
energy and the main winter diet for them
and their calves
unlike other deer a cannibal muzzle is
completely furred a necessary protection
against frostbite and their legs have a
built-in arterial bypass that keeps heat
in the upper body where it's most needed
the herding instinct increases with the
lengthening days and the caribou become
more purposeful in their traveling this
is the start of the great migration as
they prepare to leave their wintering
grounds and journey towards the open
Tundra